"Current diagnosis by microscopists using blood films expensive and time consuming"
I'm not sure if it's expensive compared to other techniques. I think that the main benefit is that it only requires one chemical (the Giemsa stain), a reasonable microscope and someone who knows what to look for. Would rephrase to:

"Diagnosis using stained blood films is time consuming and requires input from a highly-trained expert"

References:
- Tek et al., Computer vision for microscopy diagnosis of malaria. Malaria Journal 2009, 8:153.




"Malaria predominant in sub Saharan Africa - often in rural areas with few medical professionals and a lack of equiptment"

I think that this is good. Would rephrase to:

"Malaria predominant in less developed, subtropical regions - often in rural areas with a lack of equipment and a particular lack of adequately trained technicians"

References: 
- Malaria Fact Sheet, World Health Organisation 2014. Available at http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs094/en/. Accessed 22/01/2014.
- M. Tumwebaze. Evaluation Of The Capacity To Appropriately Diagnose And Treat Malaria At Rural Health Centers In Kabarole District, Western Uganda. Health Policy and Development, 9(1):46{51, 2011.




"Misdiagnosis possible due to human error"
Great point. Would suggest wording as:

"Laboratory misdiagnosis using microscopy-based methods is not uncommon"

References:
- Gautam AS, Sharma RC, Bhatt RM, Gupta DK: Microscopic diagnosis of malaria in Kheda district of Gujarat. Indian J Malariol 1992, 29:83-87. 
- Durrhelm DN, Becker PJ, Billinghurst K, Brink A: Diagnostic disagreement--the lessons learnt from malaria diagnosis in Mpumalanga. S Afr Med J 1997, 87:609-611.


"Antigen tests are less sensitive and do not differentiate between malaria types."

Did you get this from somewhere in particular? I actually think that there are assays that will give you a different result for each of the main strains. The main disadvantages of antigen detection tests are that they are not as sensitive as blood films, and they are qualitative (yes or no) and not quantitative (you can't count how many parasites are in the sample). We aren't guaranteeing a parasite count with our program, so I think we should just focus on sensitivity. Wikipedia: "The threshold of detection by these rapid diagnostic tests is in the range of 100 parasites/µl of blood compared to 5 by thick film microscopy". Rephrase:

"Rapid diagnostic tests have a higher detection threshold than blood film microscopy, and are therefore less sensitive"

References:
- Murray CK and Bennett JW. Rapid Diagnosis of Malaria. Interdiscip Perspect Infect Dis. 2009;415953



Could add a point like: 

"Other malaria detection methods may be slow and innaccurate (subjective diagnosis), expensive (molecular methods), or require specialised settings (PCR)"

References:
- Redd SC et al. Clinical algorithm for treatment of Plasmodium falciparum malaria in children. Lancet 1996;347(8996):223-7
- Mens PF et al. Detection and identification of human Plasmodium species with real-time quantitative nucleic acid sequence-based amplification. Malar J. 2006;5:80



"Manual diagnosis methods make data collection difficult"

I'm not sure if I understand what you're getting at. Do you mean something like:

"Reagent storage requirements make rapid diagnostic tests impractical in the field"

Reference:
Same as Murray and Bennett above.



"Accurate diagnosis often only available at hospitals"

Kind of true, but it's more the distinction between rural and urban areas, which is sort of already covered. I'd suggest remove this point.


"Tests often carried out too late when significant symptoms occur."

Rephrase to:

"Earlier diagnosis allows for more successful treatment and helps reduce the spread of disease"

Reference: 
-Malaria Treatment, World Health Organisation, http://www.who.int/malaria/areas/treatment/en/. Accessed 22/01/2014.


"Can be used in rural clinics only needing a computer and microscope" -> "Could be used in a rural setting, only requiring a computer and microscope"

"Enables accurate self testing" I'm not sure if this would necessarily be true, as you would still need someone who can work a microscope. 

"Reduces the need for a specialist trained in malaria diagnosis where such an opinion is unattainable"

Add:
"Could reduce the workload of a trained microscopist in the majority of cases through providing a fast and reliable classification"


"Software could collect data to store in a central database" -> Agreed! Do you think we should spell out why this would be good? Something like ", providing a standardised tool for future training and research"

"Can be used in conjunction with Antigen tests" I'm not sure, but I think I see what you're getting at. Something like:

"Can be used in conjunction with other diagnostic techniques (eg. antigen testing) to clarify uncertain cases"
